All right, lift off.
Let the confusion begin.
Okay, we have been talking about
iteration in JavaScript, and
we know a couple of ways to
iterate in JavaScript from before.
We've done some dot mapping on arrays.
We learned recently we can
only do it on arrays and
things that ultimately have
an array somewhere up the chain.
We've seen the for of loop.
Any other iteration flavors that
folks would like to share they use?
I heard a couple earlier.
Other ways to iterate
over stuff in JavaScript?
There's a few.
>> .filter()?
>> Well, okay, so .filter(),
similar to map, is iterating over things.
It's just kind of doing
a different operation, but
that's also an array friend.
>> .forEach()?
>> So .forEach() is another one which you
might have noticed actually does work on
things like HTML collections, I think.
Let's double-check that.
Children, well,
there's just one thing in it,
okay, but let's try [LAUGH]
document.children.forEach,
not a function, okay.
In any case, forEach does prop
up on a lot of objects, but
it is not something we
can always count on.
And there are other similarly iterative
methods that specific objects and
their descendants down the prototype
chain might implement.
So there's really as many
different methods that iterate
over stuff as you might want.
And things like for
of have come in more recently as a more
kind of standardized way that
we're able to iterate over things.
So that is a pretty relatively,
not super new, but
relatively new development
in JavaScript that allows
us to not only I call this method,
like .map() or
.forEach() on objects which
implement this method or
have a prototype that implements
this method or blah, blah, blah.
But for
of is designed to work on any object,
whatsoever, that is iterable.
Okay, didn't I just talk in circles?
So what's an object that's iterable if
not an object that has certain things?
Well, it is an object that
has a certain property,
as everything is in JavaScript, we have
objects and they have properties and
that's pretty much the end of the story.
Although, not really, cuz we have decades
of humans trying to deal with that.
But anyway, the definition of
an iterable in JavaScript now,
since ES6, which I believe is like 2015,
is an object iterable if it has
an iterator, an @@iterator method.
Which, like, what is that?
We don't even have that character
much except in strings.
The way we access that
iterator thing is as a symbol.
So there is this concept of symbols,
the symbol,
capital S symbol,
will give you certain of these
special properties, like symbol.iterator.
That property existing doesn't
quite make an object iterable.
That property has to return or
evaluate to,
point to, the correct type of function,
which is a function that
takes no arguments and
returns an iterator object, Cool,
we're just going up the chain of
vocabulary like it's a prototype chain.
Okay, so then we need to talk
about what is an iterator then.
How do I know what
function I need to write?
If I wanna make an object iterable,
what do I need to do?
You need to return an iterator from
the function that is the value of symbol
iterator, okay.
So the iterator definition then is
basically any object that has a .next(),
which is a method,
meaning it points to a function, and
that function returns objects with
a done property and a value property.
And done is a Boolean, which shockingly
indicates whether iteration is done or
not.
And value is the latest value
to have been iterated.
At this point the English language is
starting to break down with JavaScript,
but it's my version of it.
But the idea is that an iterator,
you can call .next() on, and
when you call .next() on an iterator,
you get back an object that
tells you whether the iterator is done and
what value it has just spit out.
And so by repetitively calling .next(),
you can get each successive
value out of the iterator.